and joining me now from our new york
studio with more foreclosure attorneys
thousands akis here hi there thousand so
you know what's really interesting about
the foreclosure issue as that you know
they have been increasing since 2010 but
unlike you know back in two thousand
seven and 2008 when experts said that
most foreclosures were due to toxic
mortgages now at least according to
realtytrac unemployment has become the
major reason for foreclosures right
that's true what I see typically with my
clients is that they're they've lost
their jobs which is the reason that they
defaulted on their mortgages but it's a
combination of both reasons actually
because the toxic mortgages and the
types of mortgages of the subprime
mortgages that were that were given to
many borrowers were adjustable rate
mortgages that that went from let's say
two percent four percent to nine percent
ten percent so not only could they not
afford the mortgage even when they were
working but now they've lost their jobs
it's made it absolutely impossible for
them to keep up with the mortgage
payments and you know the other thing
that we have to consider here is a sort
of dichotomy between being part of a
global economy but also being part of a
global workforce and you know this is
where a lot of American employees get
screwed because of outsourcing and you
know most reports say that the jobs will
continue to migrate to other areas of
the world so it seems like it's becoming
the sort of vicious cycle in a way
that's definitely true and you know what
scares me is I think that the trend now
I mean what we're seeing is that that
Americans continue to lose their jobs
and that has not that bet has not gotten
better the the employment rate has
continued to increase and what that
means is that that homeowners will
continue to default on their mortgages
and foreclosures will increase rather
than decrease in the coming years here's
another interesting statistic for the
first time since President Barack Obama
took office Americans see his economic
policies as equally to blame with those
of his predecessor new Rasmussen poll
finds that a forty-eight percent of
likely us voters now think Obama's
policies are to blame for the bad
economy versus 47-percent that blame
george w bush so doesn't
spell disaster in the way for the
Democrats at this point I'm not sure if
I agree with that you know I see the way
I see it is that the the result of the
the Bush administration's bad economic
policies will the results will continue
I mean it'll it'll have an effect for
the for the coming years and to try to
to stop it or to do some damage control
as the Obama administration is doing now
it's going to take a few years for those
programs to take effect and for that
those policies to really have an effect
on the economy and to improve now we
also have to consider of course where
the middle classes in all this the
backbone of the American economy most
reports are indicating that the middle
class is rapidly shrinking you know the
gap is widening between the haves and
have-nots you have statistics right now
that show wages shrinking housing prices
plummeting companies outsourcing jobs
what can be done if anything to avoid
complete disaster at this point ah
that's a tough question i mean
outsourcing is something that i think is
a really important question because in
order to improve the economy
domestically we really need to make sure
that businesses that corporations stay
in business and that that the Americans
keep their jobs I mean if they continue
to lose their jobs it's just it's basic
math if they continue to lose their jobs
the economy there's no there's no money
coming in from from the citizens of the
United States you know citizens of
America to contribute to to our capital
an expert's from neck of the
neighborhood assistance corporation of
america say that it's even harder now to
finance that it was before the crisis so
folks are asking you know after the
bailout after all the help the taxpayers
gave to the banks where's where's our
pay back that that's a very frustrating
question because you know what the
bank's got their bailout money and there
they got their bailout money only to
entertain loan modifications so really
the homeowners are getting the short end
of the stick to say the absolute least
you know they are they're applying for
loan modifications and
and the banks are sort of teasing them
to be honest that it's sixteen percent
of homeowners that are applying for loan
modifications are actually being
approved for permanent modifications and
it's not helping the homeowners that's
for sure foreclosure attorneys south and
zaki always good to have your analysis
here in RT